---
layout: post
title: 第二次作业发布，请与3月12日交！
---


**第二次作业请在 3 月 12 日上课前交，逾期不再接收！**


## A.2

Compute the effective CPI for MIPS using [Figure A.27](../../figures/figureA.27.png) and the table
above.  Average  the  instruction  frequencies  of  gzip  and  perlbmk  to  obtain  the
instruction mix.


## A.7

Consider the following fragment of C code:

	for (i = 0; i <= 100; i++)
	{ A[i] = B[i] + C; }

Assume that A and B are arrays of 64-bit integers, and C and i are 64-bit integers.  Assume  that  all  data  values  and  their  addresses  are  kept  in  memory  (at
addresses  1000,  3000,  5000,  and  7000  for  A,  B,  C,  and  i,  respectively)  except
when they are operated on. Assume that values in registers are lost between itera-
tions of the loop.

a.  Write  the  code  for  MIPS.  How  many  instructions  are
required dynamically? How many memory-data references will be executed?
What is the code size in bytes?

b. Write  the  code  for  x86.  How  many  instructions  are  required
dynamically? How many memory-data references will be executed? What is
the code size in bytes?



## A.10

The design of MIPS provides for 32 general-purpose registers and 32 floating-point registers. If registers are good, are more registers bet-
ter? List and discuss as many trade-offs as you can that should be considered by
instruction set architecture designers  examining  whether to, and how much to,
increase the number of MIPS registers.


## A.18

Your task is  to compare the memory efficiency of  four  different
styles of instruction set architectures. The architecture styles are

* *Accumulator* —— All operations occur between a single register and a mem-
ory location.
* *Memory-memory* —— All instruction addresses reference only memory loca-
tions.
* *Stack* —— All operations occur on top of the stack. Push and pop are the only
instructions that access memory; all others remove their operands from the
stack and replace them with the result. The implementation uses a hard-
wired stack for only the top two stack entries, which keeps the processor
circuit  very  small  and  low  cost.  Additional  stack  positions  are  kept  in
memory locations, and accesses to these stack positions require memory
references.
* *Load-store* —— All operations occur in registers, and register-to-register instructions have three register names per instruction.

To  measure  memory  efficiency,  make  the  following  assumptions  about  all
four instruction sets:

* All instructions are an integral number of bytes in length.
* The opcode is always one byte (8 bits).
* Memory accesses use direct, or absolute, addressing.
* The variables A, B, C, and D are initially in memory.

a. Invent your own assembly language mnemonics ([Figure A.2](../../figures/figureA.2.png)
provides a useful sample to generalize), and for each architecture write the
best  equivalent  assembly  language  code  for  this  high-level  language  code
sequence:

	A = B + C;
	B = A + C;
	D = A – B;
  
b. Label each instance in your assembly codes for part (a) where a
value is loaded from memory after having been loaded once. Also label each
instance in your code where the result of one instruction is passed to another
instruction as an operand, and further classify these events as involving stor-
age within the processor or storage in memory.

c.Assume that the given code sequence is from a small, embedded
computer application, such as a microwave oven controller, that uses a 16-bit
memory  address  and  data  operands.  If  a  load-store  architecture  is  used,
assume it has 16 general-purpose registers. For each architecture answer the
following  questions:  How  many  instruction  bytes  are  fetched?  How  many
bytes  of  data  are  transferred  from/to  memory?  Which  architecture  is  most
efficient as measured by total memory traffic (code + data)?

d. Now assume a processor with 64-bit memory addresses and data
operands. For each architecture answer the questions of part (c). How have
the relative merits of the architectures changed for the chosen metrics?


## A.22

The  value  represented  by  the  hexadecimal  number  `434F 4D50 5554 4552` is 
to be stored in an aligned 64-bit double word.

a. Using  the  physical  arrangement  of  the  first  row  in  Figure  A.5,
write the value to be stored using Big Endian byte order. Next, interpret each
byte as an ASCII character and below each byte write the corresponding character, 
forming the character string as it would be stored in Big Endian order.

b. Using  the  same  physical  arrangement  as  in  part  (a),  write  the
value to be stored using Little Endian byte order, and below each byte write
the corresponding ASCII character.

c. What are the hexadecimal values of all misaligned 2-byte words
that  can  be  read  from  the  given  64-bit  double  word  when  stored  in  Big
Endian byte order?

d. What are the hexadecimal values of all misaligned 4-byte words
that  can  be  read  from  the  given  64-bit  double  word  when  stored  in  Little
Endian byte order?
