---
layout: post
title: 第三次作业发布，请与3月26日交！
---


**第三次作业请在 3 月 26 日上课前交，逾期不再接收！**

## C.1

Use the following code fragment:

	Loop:     
		LD        R1,0(R2)     ;load R1 from address 0+R2
		DADDI     R1,R1,#1     ;R1=R1+1
		SD        R1,0(R2)    ;store R1 at address 0+R2
		DADDI     R2,R2,#4     ;R2=R2+4
		DSUB      R4,R3,R2     ;R4=R3-R2
		BNEZ      R4,Loop      ;branch to Loop if R4!=0
  
Assume that the initial value of R3 is R2 + 396.

a. Data  hazards  are  caused  by  data  dependences  in  the  code.
Whether a dependency causes a hazard depends on the machine implementa-
tion (i.e., number of pipeline stages). List all of the data dependences in the
code above. Record the register, source instruction, and destination instruc-
tion; for example, there is a data dependency for register R1 from the LD to
the DADDI.

b. Show the timing of this instruction sequence for the 5-stage RISC
pipeline without any forwarding or bypassing hardware but assuming that a
register read and a write in the same clock cycle “forwards” through the reg-
ister file, as shown in Figure C.6. Use a pipeline timing chart like that in Figure  C.5.
Assume  that  the  branch  is  handled  by  flushing  the  pipeline.  If  all
memory references take 1 cycle, how many cycles does this loop take to execute?

c. Show the timing of this instruction sequence for the 5-stage RISC
pipeline with full forwarding and bypassing hardware. Use a pipeline timing
chart  like that  shown in  Figure  C.5.  Assume  that the branch is handled  by
predicting it as not taken. If all memory references take 1 cycle, how many
cycles does this loop take to execute?

d. Show the timing of this instruction sequence for the 5-stage RISC
pipeline with full forwarding and bypassing hardware. Use a pipeline timing
chart  like that  shown in  Figure  C.5.  Assume  that the branch is handled  by
predicting it as taken. If all memory references take 1 cycle, how many cycles
does this loop take to execute?

e. High-performance  processors  have  very  deep  pipelines—more
than 15 stages. Imagine that you have a 10-stage pipeline in which every stage
of the 5-stage pipeline has been split in two. The only catch is that, for data
forwarding, data are forwarded from the end of a pair of stages to the beginning of the two stages where they are needed. For example, data are forwarded
from the output of the second execute stage to the input of the first execute
stage,  still  causing  a  1-cycle  delay.  Show  the  timing  of  this  instruction
sequence for the 10-stage RISC pipeline with full forwarding and bypassing
hardware. Use a pipeline timing chart like that shown in Figure C.5. Assume
that the branch is handled by predicting it as taken. If all memory references
take 1 cycle, how many cycles does this loop take to execute?

f. Assume that in the 5-stage pipeline the longest stage requires 0.8
ns, and the pipeline register delay is 0.1 ns. What is the clock cycle time of
the 5-stage pipeline? If the 10-stage pipeline splits all stages in half, what is
the cycle time of the 10-stage machine?

g. Using your answers from parts (d) and (e), determine the cycles
per instruction (CPI) for the loop on a 5-stage pipeline and a 10-stage pipeline. Make sure you count only from when the first instruction reaches the
write-back stage to the end. Do not count the start-up of the first instruction.
Using  the  clock  cycle  time  calculated  in  part  (f),  calculate  the  average
instruction execute time for each machine.


## C.2 

Suppose the branch frequencies (as percentages of all instructions)
are as follows:

	Conditional branches  15%
	Jumps and calls  1%
	Taken conditional branches         60% are taken

a. We  are  examining  a  four-deep  pipeline  where  the  branch  is
resolved at the end of the second cycle for unconditional branches and at the
end of the third cycle for conditional branches. Assuming that only the first
pipe stage can always be done independent of whether the branch goes and
ignoring other pipeline stalls, how much faster would the machine be without
any branch hazards?

b. Now assume a high-performance processor in which we have a
15-deep pipeline where the branch is resolved at the end of the fifth cycle for
unconditional  branches  and  at  the  end  of  the  tenth  cycle  for  conditional
branches. Assuming that only the first pipe stage can always be done inde-
pendent of whether the branch goes and ignoring other pipeline stalls, how
much faster would the machine be without any branch hazards?


## C.3 

We  begin  with  a  computer  implemented  in  single-cycle
implementation.  When  the  stages  are  split  by  functionality,  the  stages  do  not
require exactly the same amount of time. The original machine had a clock cycle
time of 7 ns. After the stages were split, the measured times were IF, 1 ns; ID, 1.5
ns; EX, 1 ns; MEM, 2 ns; and WB, 1.5 ns. The pipeline register delay is 0.1 ns.

a. What is the clock cycle time of the 5-stage pipelined machine?

b.If there is a stall every 4 instructions, what is the CPI of the new
machine?

c. What  is  the  speedup  of  the  pipelined  machine  over  the  single-
cycle machine?

d. If the pipelined machine had an infinite number of stages, what
would its speedup be over the single-cycle machine?



## C.4 

A  reduced  hardware  implementation  of  the  classic  five-stage
RISC pipeline might use the EX stage hardware to perform a branch instruction
comparison and then not actually deliver the branch target PC to the IF stage until
the clock cycle in which the branch instruction reaches the MEM stage. Control
hazard stalls can be reduced by resolving branch instructions in ID, but improving 
performance in one respect may reduce performance in other circumstances.
Write  a  small  snippet  of  code  in  which  calculating  the  branch  in  the  ID  stage
causes a data hazard, even with data forwarding.


## C.7

In  this  problem,  we  will  explore  how  deepening  the  pipeline
affects performance in two ways: faster clock cycle and increased stalls due to
data and control hazards. Assume that the original machine is a 5-stage pipeline
with a 1 ns clock cycle. The second machine is a 12-stage pipeline with a 0.6 ns
clock cycle. The 5-stage pipeline experiences a stall due to a data hazard every 5
instructions, whereas the 12-stage pipeline experiences 3 stalls every 8 instructions. In addition, branches constitute 20% of the instructions, and the misprediction rate for both machines is 5%.

a. What  is  the  speedup  of  the  12-stage  pipeline  over  the  5-stage
pipeline, taking into account only data hazards?

b. If the branch mispredict penalty for the first machine is 2 cycles
but the second machine is 5 cycles, what are the CPIs of each, taking into
account the stalls due to branch mispredictions?

